- [Instructor] In the different docker images
that we have built so far, we have seen,
let's say we use Ubuntu or OpenJDK as a base image.
We don't use a tag, there's a default latest tag,
but if we need to we can specify an additional tag as well.
So let's try to understand how can I create my own tags?
How can I share these images?
And what does it mean to have a real latest tag?
Is it real or is it really latest?
Let's try to understand that.
Here I am on hub.docker.com
let's take a look at OpenJDK page.
This is my OpenJDK repo,
and if I look at the tags here,
it's got plenty of tags.
These are some Windows specific versions,
then I got a JRE, JDK, for nine,
eight, then alpine versions
that we use only in old samples,
so there are plenty of tags here.
I can look at Ubuntu as well.
Look at the Ubuntu repo,
and again, there are plenty of tags for Ubuntu as well,
depending upon zesty release, or trusty release,
or you are looking at a previous release,
lots of tags.
So you can really go very specific in terms of
what do you want to do,
in terms of what your base image that you want to use
as part of your application, okay?
So, let's build our image and take a look
at how does this tagging work,
and how can we make it effective and usable for us?
I'm in my terminal here,
and I am going into helloworld directory,
and here, there's a single Dockerfile
from a previous run of the chapter.
And if I look at this Dockerfile,
it's got OpenJDK, JDK-Alpine,
and I'm seeing CMD java -version.
That's not the docker file that we're going to use over here,
so I'm going to open up this Dockerfile,
and I'm going to edit it.
I'm just going to use Ubuntu,
and I'm going to specify the latest tag here.
And, in order to simplify our Dockerimage,
all I'm going to say is echo "This is v1",
that's it.
So we're just going to use the latest Ubuntu image,
and we're going to just print this statement "This is v1".
Save it here.
Now, we have a few containers running around over here.
So that the output is cleaner and easier to understand,
I'm going to remove all the images,
and remove all the containers.
And this way you will also learn
how easy it is to remove them in one shot.
So, I'm going to say docker image ls,
and if I say all quiet,
it's going to print all the images, okay?
And I'm going to use that as an input
to docker image rm brute force remove it,
and use all the values as arguments.
So, all my images are now removed,
and if I look at docker image ls,
there are no images.
Similarly, I can say docker container ls all quiet,
and there are a few containers that are running.
Use that that the input too.
Docker container rm -f
and all the containers have gone as well.
So now, if I say docker container ls,
none of the containers are existing.
So that brings a good background
in terms of what we're going to do next,
so let's build our image.
Docker image build dash, we're not giving dash t here,
or a tag to the image but let's see what happens here.
So, this is going to download the latest
Ubuntu image for us and build our base image.
So our image is built,
let's take a look at image listing here.
So I just got Ubuntu latest,
and, oh, repository is none and tag is none.
Well, that happens because we did not
specify a tag for the image,
and that's out of the default behavior essentially.
Now, if I want to run this container,
I would have to say docker container run,
and because I don't have a name or a tag,
I need to copy this image id,
and paste it here and then I can run the container.
That'll say "This is v1" so that's okay.
Now let's say I build the image again,
and this time, I say hello world, okay?
I'm just giving it a tag.
Alright, so let's do this.
It built the image rather fast,
because the image has already been created.
Ubuntu image has been downloaded,
let's take a look at the image listing.
As you see here, this shows none none,
but now, that none none is replaced by helloworld latest,
because we have explicitly given it a name, okay?
So, now, if I want to run the container,
I can say docker container run helloworld,
by default, it's the latest tag,
so it shows me this output.
Or, as I said, default is latest,
this will show the same output.
So that's kind of cool.
Now, what I'm going to do is,
I am going to remove the image with the latest tag.
I'm going to say docker image rm helloworld:latest.
Well, it's running the container,
so let's terminate our container first.
Container ls -a.
There are lots of containers running here,
and if you recall, we can remove
all the containers with one command here.
So I can say docker container rm
and show me the list of all the containers quietly,
and all the containers are gone,
and now I can remove the image, okay?
So that's good.
So, now I'm going to build the image again,
and I'm going to give it the tag :1,
because this is version one.
Alright, so the image is built.
Now if I look at docker image ls,
I only have helloworld 1,
so if I want to run I need to run the image accordingly.
So I can say docker container run helloworld:1.
That shows a good output, but let's see,
what happens if I do
docker container run hello world?
Well, the default is the latest tag,
see what's going to happen now.
Rightly so.
The latest tag does not exist,
so latest is not really latest, you know,
you got to explicitly tag it latest.
But let's see if I can brute force it.
Nope, brute force doesn't work in this case,
so the latest tag does not exist.
Well, what I can do though is,
I can say docker image tag,
I can take helloworld:1,
and I can tag it to helloworld:latest,
and now, if I look at docker image ls,
I got helloworld with tag 1,
helloworld with tag latest.
And now, if I try to run helloworld:latest,
that'll work well.
So that is pretty cool.
Well, it's cool but the key part
really you want to understand is
latest is not really latest,
it's latest only when you tag it to be latest.
Let's prove that further by opening up our docker file here,
and what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to change the docker file,
and I'm going to call it "This is v2".
Only the command is being changed here, okay?
So, now, I'm going to build my image again,
and I'm going to call this as version two here, okay?
So the image is built,
and I'm going to run docker container run helloworld.
Oh, this still shows "This is v1".
But I just built "This is v2".
So that is a conflict that you need to understand.
So, go back to the point that I was stating earlier,
I need to explicitly tag helloworld two
to be helloworld:latest.
Let's take a look at the image listing for a second.
Well, two exist, one exist,
but latest is pointing to helloworld:1.
So let's tag the image,
so what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to take helloworld:2,
and tag it to be helloworld:latest.
And now, when I run helloworld,
it rightly prints v2.
So this is an important aspect that
you need to understand that latest
is not really latest,
it is whatever is tagged to be latest,
and whatever version is tagged to be the latest.
So it's typically a misnomer that you want to understand.
Now, let's try to push this image to docker hub,
when it's at docker hub, anybody and everybody can push it,
let's see if that's really true.
So I'm going to take image push, helloworld:latest.
It says "requested access to the resource is denied".
Well, the reason it is denied is
because you cannot push an image to dockerhub,
unless it belongs to your namespace.
In my case, my namespace has to be arungupta.
So, now, I need to tag that image appropriately.
So, I'm going to take the tag here,
and instead of saying helloworld.latest, or :latest,
I'm going to say arungupta/helloworld:latest.
Now this is done,
so I just need to login,
and I'm logged in now,
and now, when I say docker push arungupta/helloworld:latest,
this image will be successfully pushed to the docker hub.
So that is pretty cool.
Now, while this is happening in the background,
we pushed it to docker hub.
How do we push it to a local registry in that case?
Well, let's try to run a local registry
and see what happens over there, okay?
Now, in order to run a local registry,
what I could do is,
I can run that as a docker image as well.
So I'm going to say docker run,
run it in a detached mode,
do the port forwarding appropriately.
I'm going to restart the registry
so that it can automatically restart,
and the value of that parameter is always.
I'm going to give it a name, registry,
and now, I'm going to give it a docker image name,
this is registry, and give it a tag.
So this is going to start a private registry
on my local machine here.
And, there's a typo in the command,
we can always fix that here, and that's done it.
But, of course, registry 2.6.0 doesn't exist,
so it's going to download the image,
and is going to run the image for me.
Now, in order to push the image to my local registry here,
I need to tag it appropriately.
So I'm going to say docker tag,
rather image tag, helloworld:latest
and my registry is running on localhost:5000,
so I'm going to say take it to arungupta/helloworld:latest.
So I need to tag it.
The format really here is
registry, the image name, and the tag name.
So those are the three parts that you need to understand.
So I just tagged it, if I look at the image listing now,
you can see this is my complete image name,
and now, this can be easily pushed to the local registry.
So I'm going to say docker image push
localhost:5000/arungupta/helloworld:latest.
And this image is now pushed to my local registry.
So, in this section, we saw what does tagging mean,
that the latest is not really latest,
and how these images can be pushed to docker hub
or to your local registry.